---

copyright:
  years: 2018, 2020
lastupdated: "2020-02-25"

keywords: root keys, create root keys, Hyper Protect Crypto Services GUI, symmetric key, create key-wrapping key, create CRK, create CMK, create customer key, key-wrapping key, root key API examples

subcollection: hs-crypto

---

{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:screen: .screen}
{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:pre: .pre}
{:tip: .tip}
{:note: .note}
{:external: target="_blank" .external}
{:term: .term}

# Creating root keys
{: #create-root-keys}

You can use {{site.data.keyword.cloud}} {{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}} to create [root keys](#x6946961){: term} by using the {{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}} GUI, or programmatically with the {{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}} key management API.
{: shortdesc}

Root keys are symmetric key-wrapping keys that are used to protect the security of encrypted data in the cloud. For more information about root keys, see [Envelope encryption](/docs/hs-crypto?topic=hs-crypto-envelope-encryption).

## Creating root keys with the GUI
{: #root-key-gui}

[After you create an instance of the service](/docs/hs-crypto?topic=hs-crypto-provision), complete the following steps to create a root key with the {{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}} GUI.

1. [Log in to the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} console](https://cloud.ibm.com/login){: external}.
2. Go to **Menu** &gt; **Resource List** to view a list of your resources.
3. From your {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} resource list, select your provisioned instance of {{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}}.
4. To create a new key, click **Add key** and select **Create a key**.

    Specify the key's details:

    <table>
      <tr>
        <th>Setting</th>
        <th>Description</th>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Key type</td>
        <td>The type of key that you would like to manage in {{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}}. From the list of key types, select <strong><a href="/docs/hs-crypto?topic=hs-crypto-understand-concepts#root-key-concept">Root key</a></strong>.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Name</td>
        <td>
          <p>A unique, human-readable alias for easy identification of your key.</p>
          <p>To protect your privacy, ensure that the key name does not contain personally identifiable information (PII), such as your name or location.</p>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <caption style="caption-side:bottom;">Table 1. Describes the <strong>Generate new key</strong> settings</caption>
    </table>

5. When you are finished filling out the key's details, click **Add key** to confirm.

Keys that are created in the service are symmetric 256-bit keys, supported by the AES-CBC algorithm. For added security, keys are generated by FIPS 140-2 Level 4 certified [hardware security modules (HSMs)](#x6704988){: term} that are located in secure {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} data centers.

## Creating root keys with the API
{: #root-key-api}

Create a root key by making a `POST` call to the following endpoint.

```
https://api.<region>.hs-crypto.cloud.ibm.com:<port>/api/v2/keys
```
{: codeblock}

1. [Retrieve your service and authentication credentials to work with keys in the service](/docs/hs-crypto?topic=hs-crypto-set-up-kms-api).

2. Call the [{{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}} key management API](https://{DomainName}/apidocs/hs-crypto){: external} with the following cURL command.

    ```cURL
    curl -X POST \
      https://api.<region>.hs-crypto.cloud.ibm.com:<port>/api/v2/keys \
      -H 'authorization: Bearer <IAM_token>' \
      -H 'bluemix-instance: <instance_ID>' \
      -H 'content-type: application/vnd.ibm.kms.key+json' \
      -H 'correlation-id: <correlation_ID>' \
      -d '{
     "metadata": {
       "collectionType": "application/vnd.ibm.kms.key+json",
       "collectionTotal": 1
     },
     "resources": [
       {
       "type": "application/vnd.ibm.kms.key+json",
       "name": "<key_alias>",
       "description": "<key_description>",
       "expirationDate": "<YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.SSZ>",
       "extractable": <key_type>
       }
     ]
    }'
    ```
    {: codeblock}

    Replace the variables in the example request according to the following table.

    <table>
      <tr>
        <th>Variable</th>
        <th>Description</th>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><varname>region</varname></td>
        <td>The region abbreviation, such as <code>us-south</code> or <code>au-syd</code>, that represents the geographic area where your {{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}} service instance resides. For more information, see <a href="/docs/hs-crypto?topic=hs-crypto-regions#service-endpoints">Regional service endpoints</a>.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><varname>IAM_token</varname></td>
        <td>Your {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} access token. Include the full contents of the <code>IAM</code> token, including the Bearer value, in the cURL request. For more information, see <a href="/docs/hs-crypto?topic=hs-crypto-retrieve-access-token">Retrieving an access token</a>.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><varname>instance_ID</varname></td>
        <td>The unique identifier that is assigned to your {{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}} service instance. For more information, see <a href="/docs/hs-crypto?topic=hs-crypto-retrieve-instance-ID">Retrieving an instance ID</a>.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><varname>correlation_ID</varname></td>
        <td>The unique identifier that is used to track and correlate transactions.</td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><varname>key_alias</varname></td>
        <td>
          <p>A unique, human-readable name for easy identification of your key.</p>
          <p>Important: To protect your privacy, do not store your personal data as metadata for your key.</p>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><varname>key_description</varname></td>
        <td>
          <p>Optional: An extended description of your key.</p>
          <p>Important: To protect your privacy, do not store your personal data as metadata for your key.</p>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><varname>YYYY-MM-DD</varname><br><varname>HH:MM:SS.SS</varname></td>
        <td>Optional: The date and time that the key expires in the system, in RFC 3339 format. If the <code>expirationDate</code> attribute is omitted, the key does not expire. </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td><varname>key_type</varname></td>
        <td>
          <p>A boolean value that determines whether the key material can leave the service.</p>
          <p>When you set the <code>extractable</code> attribute to <code>false</code>, the service creates a root key that you can use for <code>wrap</code> or <code>unwrap</code> operations.</p>
        </td>
      </tr>
        <caption style="caption-side:bottom;">Table 2. Describes the variables that are needed to add a root key with the {{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}} key management API</caption>
    </table>

    To protect the confidentiality of your personal data, avoid entering personally identifiable information (PII), such as your name or location, when you add keys to the service. For more examples of PII, see section 2.2 of the [NIST Special Publication 800-122](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-122.pdf){: external}.
    {: tip}

    A successful `POST /v2/keys` response returns the ID value for your key, along with other metadata. The ID is a unique identifier that is assigned to your key and is used for subsequent calls to the {{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}} key management API.

3. Optional: Verify that the key was created by running the following call to browse the keys in your {{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}} service instance.

    ```cURL
    curl -X GET \
      https://api.<region>.hs-crypto.cloud.ibm.com:<port>/api/v2/keys \
      -H 'accept: application/vnd.ibm.collection+json' \
      -H 'authorization: Bearer <IAM_token>' \
      -H 'bluemix-instance: <instance_ID>' \
      -H 'correlation-id: <correlation_ID>' \
    ```
    {: codeblock}

After you create a root key with the service, the key stays within the bounds of {{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}}, and its key material cannot be retrieved.
{: note}

## What's next
{: #root-key-next}

- To find out more about protecting keys with envelope encryption, check out [Wrapping keys](/docs/hs-crypto?topic=hs-crypto-wrap-keys).
- To find out instruction on importing your own key, check out [Importing root keys](/docs/hs-crypto?topic=hs-crypto-import-root-keys) or [Importing standard keys](/docs/hs-crypto?topic=hs-crypto-import-standard-keys).
- To find out more about programmatically managing your keys, [check out the {{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}} key management API reference doc](https://{DomainName}/apidocs/hs-crypto){: external}.
